Early user notes initial version (#598)
argonne-lcf/user-guides: docs/aurora/known-issues.md

### Outages and downtime – expectations 

Expect unplanned outages and downtime. Stability of the Aurora system has improved significantly over the months leading up to production availability, but stability issues remain. Early users need to be proactive about verifying correctness, watching for hangs, and otherwise adopting work methods that are mindful of and resilient to instability.

### Scheduling

The current queue policy for Aurora is setup based on experiences to-date to help maximize productive use of the machine by projects.

* Initial goal for teams is to start testing at small scales, ensure correct results (and performance), and ramp up to generating scientific results in production campaigns.

* Focus initially on making good use of the system with <=2048 nodes per job; key is to validate code+runs and start generating science results. Initially, the prod queue will only allow 2048 nodes max. Except for ESP projects, project teams will be required to email support to request running on more than 2048 nodes (with evidence that they are likely to succeed at larger scales).

### Storage

> #### Flare (lustre file system)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Flare (Lustre file system)
```

> This is the primary and most stable storage filesystem for now. It is still possible that heavy use may trigger significant lags and performance degradations, and possibly lead to compute nodes crashing.  We’re still not sure how stable it will be with everyone on doing production, but we’ll find out soon.  We should encourage teams to start out easy on I/O (both amount and job size), if possible, and see how it goes.  If all goes well we can tell them it is ok to scale up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the primary and most stable storage filesystem for now. It is still possible that heavy use may trigger significant lags and performance degradations, and possibly lead to compute nodes crashing.  We will continue to monitor filesystem stability as production use ramps up. We encourage teams to start out easy on I/O (both amount and job size), if possible, and report issues.
```

#### DAOS (object store)

Performance of DAOS has been impressive, but we continue to experience crashes with large jobs, including loss of data. Projects may use it, but should not consider it stable or safe for long-term storage.

#### Grand/Eagle

> These won’t be mounted on Aurora initially, but might be mounted around May if that seems feasible to do so. Similarly, Flare will not initially be mounted on Polaris. DTNs and globus are the best means to transfer data between Polaris and Aurora.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These won’t be mounted on Aurora initially, but they might be mounted around May 2025, depending on feasibility. Similarly, Flare will not initially be mounted on Polaris. DTNs and [Globus](../data-management/data-transfer/using-globus.md) are the best means to transfer data between Polaris and Aurora.
```

Author: Committed same change directly.

### Checkpointing 

Checkpointing is absolutely essential. The mean time between application interrupts caused by system instability may be as short as an hour for larger jobs. The frequency of checkpointing is something that needs to be decided for each individual application based on scale of runs.

* If checkpointing has minimal overhead, consider checkpointing once every 15 minutes.

* If checkpointing has substantial overhead, then consider checkpointing every 30-60 minutes

* It may be the case that the highest throughput initially will be with creating job dependency chains where scripts are able to 1) automatically restart from the latest available checkpoint file and 2) confirm that the prior run generated reasonable/correct results

### Troubleshooting Common Issues

> As always, INCITE and ALCC projects should Report all issues to Catalyst POC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As always, INCITE and ALCC projects should report all issues to their Catalyst point of contact
```

Author: Committed same change directly.

#### Ping Failures

Network instabilities may lead to some nodes or MPI ranks losing communication with others. If your job output shows an error message like these:

```
ping failed on x4707c6s4b0n0: Couldn't forward RPC ping(24c93b8c-3434-4fb5-a8f0-53cff4cbbe42) to child x4707c7s6b0n0.hostmgmt2707.cm.aurora.alcf.anl.gov: Resource temporarily unavailable
```

```
ping RPC timeout from x4212c7s0b0n0.hostmgmt2212.cm.aurora.alcf.anl.gov after 120s
```
then most likely your application will crash or hang. If you see these, the best action is to kill the job and re-run it (from the last checkpoint, if there has been one).

<!-- #### PBS failures -->

<!-- Need to fill this in with examples and advice to set retry_count to something sane -->

#### Hangs

There are multiple failure modes that can lead to jobs hanging. For known hardware or low-level software issues such as ping failures as discussed above, just restart the job. 

> To avoid a hung job running out all the requested wallclock time on all its nodes, we suggest devising ways to monitor job progress. For example, if your application regularly writes small output to logfile, then you could launch a “watcher” script look for that expected output and collect a stack trace and kill the job if it's been too long.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid a hung job running out all the requested wallclock time on all its nodes, we suggest devising ways to monitor job progress. For example, if your application regularly writes small output to logfile, then you could launch a “watcher” script that looks for that expected output and collect a stack trace and kill the job if it's been too long since progress was made. Please engage your Catalyst POC if you are interested in evaluating this for your application.
```

### Other issues

> * Interim Filesystem: The early access filesystem is not highly performant. Intermittent hangs or pauses should be expected - waiting for IO to complete is recommended and IO completions should pass without failure. Jobs requiring significant filesystem performance must be avoided at this time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
